---
layout: default
title: Rationale
nav_order: 5
has_children: true
---


### Overview

Developing AI systems requires careful attention to compliance in key areas such as risk management, data governance, human oversight, accuracy, robustness, security, transparency, and quality management. These measures are crucial for ensuring integrity, safety, and transparency in AI operations and must be integrated throughout the entire lifecycle of AI systems to comply with regulations and standards.



### European Research Area forum guidelines summary


The guidelines on the responsible use of generative AI in research developed by the European Research Area Forum are comprehensive and cover recommendations for researchers, research organizations, and research funding organizations. Here is a detailed breakdown of the guidelines:

1. **Recommendations for Researchers:**
   - Researchers should remain ultimately responsible for the scientific output generated by or with the support of AI tools.
   - Use generative AI transparently by detailing which tools have been used substantially in research processes.
   - Pay attention to privacy, confidentiality, and intellectual property rights when sharing sensitive information with AI tools.
   - Researchers should not use generative AI tools substantially in sensitive activities that could impact others unfairly.

2. **Recommendations for Research Organizations:**
   - Promote, guide, and support the responsible use of generative AI in research activities.
   - Actively monitor the development and use of generative AI systems within their organizations.
   - Reference or integrate generative AI guidelines into general research guidelines for good research practices and ethics.
   - Implement locally hosted or cloud-based generative AI tools that they govern themselves for data protection and confidentiality.

3. **Recommendations for Research Funding Organizations:**
   - Promote and support the responsible use of generative AI in research.
   - Review the use of generative AI in internal processes transparently and responsibly.
   - Request transparency from applicants on their use of generative AI.
   - Monitor and actively engage in the evolving generative AI landscape.